Climate simulations are becoming increasingly complex, with each CMIP phase introducing more sophisticated models, a greater number of experiments, and larger ensembles, leading to a continuous rise in computational requirements. Efforts to systematically quantify the computational cost, energy use, and environmental impact of CMIP activities have been limited. This Task Team was established to address this gap by measuring and reporting these aspects for the upcoming CMIP phase, CMIP7.
The Computational Performance for Model Intercomparison Project (CPMIP) defines a standardised set of metrics for evaluating ESMs and their execution on HPC platforms. Most of the CPMIP metrics relate to runtime performance (e.g., throughput, computational cost, coupling, I/O) for a given model configuration (e.g., resolution, complexity, parallelisation). 
All modelling centres participating in CMIP7 are asked to provide these metrics for the experiments they are running for the CMIP7 Assessment Fast Track and community MIPs, and the energy consumption to help assess the carbon footprint. 
While many activities contribute to the overall CO₂ emissions of CMIP projects, the current effort focuses only on emissions directly related to computing the simulations. Through the inclusion of the Power Usage Effectiveness (PUE) factor, the estimates will also account for the energy overheads of the HPC facility, such as cooling, networking, and power distribution. However, data storage, data transfers, and other offline processes are not included in this phase of the analysis.
To promote consistent and widespread collection of experiment-level metrics by modelling centres in CMIP7, they are organised into three tiers, reflecting collection effort and their analytical value. 
